# SSH Protocol

Secure Shell Protocol.

Like HTTP, HTTPS, FTP are protocols, SSH is also a protocol.

THe SSH is a protocol that is used to communicate between shell/terminal.

To communicate we use the terminal command `ssh {user}@{host}`.

## Encryption

* Symmetrical Encryption : A single key is used at client and server to encrypt and decrypt the message.

* Asymmetrical Encryption : Use two different keys, public and private key. A public key is spend by both client and server and this public key is used to encrypt the message, which when recieved can be decrypted by the private key stored. As there is no exchange of private keys and there is no way to get the private key from public key, the connection is secured.

Asymmetric Encryption is time consuming hence it is used only to exchange Symmetrical key in most cases.

In SSH Asymmetrical Encryption is used initially to from a Symmetrical Encryption key. The Symmetrical key not exchanged but generated by using Difiie Hellman key Exchange.

* Hashing : Hashing is used to authenticate that the message content is not tempered while transimission.

## Connecting to Github with SSH

We have a folder `~/.ssh` in the user.

The folder contains `config id_rsa id_rsa.pub key_backup/ known_hosts` etc folders in it.

We can use `ssh-keygen -C "emailaddress@email.com"`
-C => comment, provides a new Comment.

Once we press Enter, we will be asked where the key needs to be saved. If there are other keys we can rename the `id_rsa` file for that specific use case.
`Enter file in which to save key(/Users/Adwait/.ssh/id_rsa): /Users/Adwait/.ssh/id_rsa_git`.

We can have an additional password for this but we don't need it mostly.

We can then use this key that we generated and add it to the any servers authorized_keys.